[Wise Pale Bottlenose Dolphin]
1.) When the water trembled, the rocks tumbled, and the glyphs spoke for the guardian no more, I knew you would come, Ecco!
1.) Further challenge awaits you. You must find the old way into Atlantis, the way none have gone since the Guardian was raised.
1.) But bravery and strength are not enough. None may pass unless they learn the powers of the glyphs and songs of the seas.
1.) You have taken the first steps on this journey, but be warned: between teeth and the shrine there'll be none to help you.

2.) Another power may aid you. It is as the octopus is. Ancient and impressionable. Inscrutable and unknowable.
NOTE: possibly hinting at the Power of Metamorphosis that will appear in Roaring Forces, Descent of the Foe, and Transfiguration.

3.) Our destiny lies before you. Learn all you can and you may yet prevail. Fail and you fail us all more than you can imagine.

4.) The songs of the sea are many in numbers. Learn every and each one you hear from your friends. But forget not the glyphs, because their powers are still greater than all!

5.) The power of glyphs is the strength of the Guardian. The Guardian is of the glyphs and their are of the Guardian.

[Glyph]
1.) Find first the rescue and from him learn his song. Then shielded by manta you may pass the foul one.

[Manta-Speaking Bottlenose Dolphin]
1.) What is this? A STRANGER! I have been alone so long I almost forgot what another dolphin's song sounded like!
1.) For nineteen tides did I try to slip past the crafty octopus. It was only with the help of another that I got by.
1.) So I entered these Caves of Secrets, only to find that I lacked the talents to use the power of the crystals!
1.) But then I found this quiet pool and I learned to sing to the rays. Now the manta is my friend and we are content.
1.) I will teach you the ray song if you can catch me one great fish which looks like sky and the sun when it is high.

2.) Enjoy your stay in this pool. The manta and I do not often get company! Or bring me a great fish and I will teach you the ray song, a fish which is blue and golden like sun.

If you get him the wrong great fish for the first time.
3.) That is the wrong great fish. I want the one that looks like sky and sun, blue and yellow.

If you get him the wrong great fish for the second time.
4.) That is one of the great fish, but not the one I crave for. I don't like that one nor the red one in fact.

When you get him the right great fish.
5.) You brought me the fish I so wanted! For all of your efforts, your kindness, and patience I will teach you my song commanding all rays.
5.) Sing that to mantas and they will swim where you point them. Sing it to stingrays and they will scatter at once!

6.) You cannot leave the way you came. You must pass the giant moray eel. Perhaps the manta of the tunnels can help you.

If you try to take his blue-yellow great fish back.
7.) Hey! You brought me that great fish! It is mine and you cannot have it back! Leave it alone, I tell you my friend!

If you try to take the red great fish back.
8.) I think that fish tastes like seaweed! I can't believe you would put this in your mouth!

If you try to take the polkadot great fish back.
9.) I would rather eat a stingray alive, than put this fish you brought me in my mouth!
