[Glyph No. 1]
1.) Ambition and intelligence alone made dolphin arrogant and cruel. Coldhearted to their own kind, worse to those deemed lesser.

[Wary Outcast]
1.) You are an air-breather! I thought they were extinct!
1.) Our small village has been here since ages past, but now it is a shell of its former self. It has dwindled even as the neighboring Clan village grew.
1.) The Clan have always ignored us. But then they blocked the feeding grounds with rocks and made the other way out a deadly trap. We do not know why.

2.) As the Clan village grew into a city we were left with less and less. Now see how sad our village has become.
2.) But why the Clan should trap us here without food, we do not know. They must want something, but have asked us for nothing.

When you bring fish back to the village.
3.) You saved us from starvation! Ecco, what can we do for you?
3.) I know nothing about the spheres of which you speak. But strange things have been happening here.
3.) Some of our people began behaving oddly then disappeared when the Clan drove us into the village and trapped us here.

After speaking to the storyteller.
3.) You are an air-breather! I thought there were none of those left!
3.) I know nothing about the spheres of which you speak. But strange things have been happening here.
3.) Some of our people have been behaving oddly. They disappeared when the Clan trapped us here without food.

[Storyteller Outcast]
1.) I am the keeper of tales.
1.) The only story I will tell you is that we are starving now. The Clan has taken all our food.

2.) I am so hungry. I would tell you my best stories if you could find me even one fish!

When you bring fish back to the village.
3.) Stranger, the only way I can repay you for the food you have brought to me is to sing you our oldest story.
3.) Long time ago we were ignorant and lazy. But one day a traveler from far away brought us intelligence and ambition. He asked nothing in return for these gifts.
3.) But intelligence allowed us to change ourselves, and ambition led some of us to think we were greater than others.
3.) The traveler asked nothing for the gifts, but there was a cost. The moral is that even gifts have their price.
NOTE: This is the Outcast's retelling with the understanding of how the dolphins back in Man's Nightmare were before the traveler being Ecco from the past timeline gave back the Noble Traits of Intelligence and Ambition to dolphinkind with nothing in return. This came with the cost of creating the dolphins in Dolphin's Nightmare since they lack compassion and wisdom leading them to be reckless and discriminatory.

If you ask the storyteller to repeat the tale.
4.) You wish to hear the tale again?
NOTE: He will repeat the story again.

[Glyph No. 2]
1.) Use your gifts to break the stone. Lead a school to the hopeless ones. When the hungry are fed, more secrets will reveal.

[Trumpet Singer Outcast]
1.) Appreciate your health while you can. There is no food, and we are starving.

2.) The Clan took all the fish from our village and sealed them off from us. We do not know why.

When you bring fish back to the village.
3.) You have given us hope again. For that I will teach you a trick.
3.) If you sing to a trumpet plant, it will sing back. The Clan always follows the sound of the trumpet, and stays there as long as it sings.
3.) We did it for fun, but this trick may help you if you encounter the Clan.
NOTE: You learned the Song of Trumpet, which will come in handy for Entrapment.

4.) Remember, sing to the trumpet plants to make them sing and distract the Clan.

[Distrustful Outcast]
1.) You are a stranger to me. I do not know you. LEAVE ME!

2.) You do not have the mark of the Clan, yet you are well fed while we are starving. I DO NOT TRUST YOU!

When you bring fish back to the village.
3.) You brought fish to our village! You must want something to risk the Clan's wrath.

[Protective Outcast]
1.) Do not disturb my father. He's sick from starvation and can barely swim. I can't let him die. I NEED HIM!

2.) GO AWAY! DO NOT DISTURB MY FATHER!

When you bring fish back to the village.
3.) My father is weak from starvation and can barely swim. I can't let him die. I NEED HIM!
3.) You brought us fish to the village. If you can bring my father the one fish that will save him, I'll teach you my song that will save you!

4.) You brought the fish to us! If you can bring my father the one fish that will save him, I'll teach you my song!

When you bring back specifically the red fish to save their father's life.
5.) You brought my father the fish that he needed, I'll teach you my song of vision.
5.) Follow me and I will show you how to see with it.

When they leads you to the entrance of the Channel of Death.
6.) I know a song that will get you through the Channel of Death.
6.) Watch what I do and follow me. I'll teach you how to sing it when we reach a safe place.

When you reach the halfway point within the Channel of Death.
7.) Now that you see the use of this song, I'll teach it to you. Listen carefully!
7.) You should be able to pass on your own from now on.

[Father of Protective Outcast]
1.) I pity you for coming to this cursed place. No food. No hope.

2.) Please leave me to rest.

When you bring fish back to the village.
3.) I pity you for coming to this cursed place.
3.) At least there is food now. My child may yet live long even if I do not.

When you bring back specifically the red fish to save his life.
4.) Stranger, you surprise me! What do you want in exchange for the food you brought us? No dolphin I know ever thinks of others.

5.) What do you want from me that you would bring me fish I needed? No other dolphin ever thinks of others.

[Glyph No. 3 - If you take the Nightmare Grouper Route]
1.) Be as the school. But be not seen.
