[Blue Bottlenose Dolphin Caretaker]
1.) I spoke to the Guardian, but it is weak. I could not understand what it tried to tell me. Perhaps you can do better.

2.) We must do something, Ecco. There must be some power we can use to restore the Guardian.

After speaking to the Guardian.
1.) The Guardian asked you to find power jewels? No one has used them since the Guardian was created!

2.) I only hope that those jewels will help!

[Guardian]
1.) The glyphs that spoke to you on your quest are projections of myself, a means of guiding you on your quest.
1.) Ecco, you are the first to collect the five abilities since Atlantis was built. Well done.
1.) But time is short. The foe of dolphin and mankind is near. The danger is great. My powers are weak.
1.) Bring the five power jewels. With their energies I will restore myself, the gate, and defend the Earth from the Foe.

2.) Bring the power jewels or the Foe will exploit my weakness. So long as I am halved, the danger is great.

After collecting the first power jewel.
3.) With this first jewel I can sense the others. They are near. Bring them to me.

After collecting the second power jewel.
4.) With two jewels my senses are dim. You must find the remaining three and bring them here to me.

After collecting the third power jewel.
5.) With three jewels my vision returns. The foe of dolphin and mankind is nearer than ever.
5.) If the Foe perceives my weakness before you bring me the remaining jewels, all may be lost.

After collecting the fourth power jewel.
6.) With these four jewels I have almost the power to restore myself. But it will take the fifth to finish the task.

[Common Dolphin Tourist]
1.) Without the power of the Guardian, the jumping rings do not work and even the exhibit halls are closed.

2.) Without the power of the Guardian, even the exhibit halls cannot be entered and the jumping rings are off too.

After speaking to the Guardian and seen with a power jewel.
3.) That's a power jewel! Take it to the Guardian, the exhibit halls may open! I want to see the temple and the visions it holds.

[Mother Common Dolphin]
1.) Have you been able to find out anything about what happened? One moment the Guardian was fine, then it exploded!

2.) I wish there was something we can do!

After speaking to the Guardian and seen with a power jewel.
3.) Our daughter hides the jewels and wants us to find them. I think I saw one near the shore of the sandy beach.

4.) Did you find the jewels yet? I recall hearing there were five, but our daughter only ever found four of them.

[Father Common Dolphin]
1.) This is not good, Ecco. What will we do if the Guardian cannot be mended?

2.) We are frightened. I have never known a time without the Guardian's protection.

After speaking to the Guardian and seen with a power jewel.
3.) I've seen jewels like that. Our daughter likes to hide them. But she cried when she dropped one in the hole and lost it!

4.) I wish I could've be more help, but the hole is the last place I recall seeing our daughter playing with the jewel.

[Daughter Common Dolphin]
1.) Ecco! I'm glad you're here! I don't feel safe with the Guardian broken!

2.) My father says everything is going to be all right. Do you think so too, Ecco?

After speaking to the Guardian and seen with a power jewel.
3.) You found a jewel! I thought I hid them better than that! Is that the one I hid way up above the temple?

4.) I hid the jewels so many times. I only remember where I put one of them!
4.) I used the jumping rings to leap over the temple, and dropped the jewel right above the top! My parents never found that one!

[Blue Bottlenose Dolphin Gatekeeper]
1.) Ecco! I didn't see you come in before the gate collapsed!

2.) With the gate ruined there's no way back to the ocean. We are trapped in here unless someone can repair the Guardian.

After speaking to the Guardian and seen with a power jewel.
3.) If you find enough jewels, you may be able to repair the Guardian!

