[Older Brother Bottlenose Dolphin]
1.) I was going to teach my brother the art of fighting sharks. But he is off somewhere playing with his turtle again!
1.) If you see them playing together please find me here at once, and I will teach you how to trick all sharks!

2.) The sharks here are easy to beat. Just watch out for their teeth!

After helping his younger brother and saving his turtle friend.
3.) My brother asks me to teach you my shark song? Sure! Show me where he is and I will sing it for you.

After leading him to his younger brother's whereabouts.
4.) You helped me find my brother, I will teach you my best song.
4.) When you sing this to a shark it will make its head confused, so from now on you can even fight them head-on!

After learning the shark song.
5.) My brother would rather play with turtles than fight sharks. Maybe you will put my shark song to better use!

You find his brother but yet to fight the sharks.
6.) You found my little brother? Lead me to him and I will teach you a skill to tame the sharks!

You lead him but didn't follow you because Ecco didn't rid the pool of sharks.
7.) Talk to me again when there are no sharks in that pool. Maybe then I will follow you.

After defeating the sharks and can properly lead him to find his brother.
My brother wants me to teach you my shark song? Okay. I will follow you again, but I better not see one shark in that pool!

[Younger Brother Bottlenose Dolphin]
1.) Ecco! Those mean sharks are after my baby turtle! Help!

2.) Help save me my turtle and I will teach you his song!

If you still yet to beat the sharks and save his turtle.
3.) My turtle is still in trouble! What kind of a shark fighter are you?

After saving his turtle and learn the turtle song.
4.) You are some shark fighter! But my brother could still teach you a trick or two if you asked him!
4.) Now listen, I will teach you something. Listen carefully!
4.) If you sing that to a turtle, it will follow you. Try it!

5.) You should talk to my brother. He can teach you the shark song.

After bringing his older brother to him.
6.) Thank you again for saving my turtle! I will never forget you.

[Glyph No. 1]
1.) There is no way back Ecco. Your quest shall begin. Earth was attacked, and danger is approaching. My powers are weak since I have been halved.
1.) Earth is defenseless, but one chosen dolphin can rescue us all. This call from Atlantis sounds distant and hopeless but you are the dolphin to bring our hope back.
1.) You shall learn from the others new skills, talent, wisdom, and join me prepared to restore what was lost. Remember, the answers are not always instant but who is persistent rewarded becomes.

[Racer Dolphins]
1.) Come race with us Ecco! Race around the outside of the stone pillars. First one back here wins!
1.) But before we start you have to catch one of the red fish here! And no cheating! Go at the third whistle! Let's do it!

If you don't participate or failed the race previously in the race.
2.) Don't you want to race with us? Are you afraid of losing? Or do the red fish elude you? We take off at the third whistle!

If you lose the race.
3.) You can do better than that! This is an easy race. You should try again! We go at third whistle!

If you cheat in the race.
4.) YOU ARE A CHEATER!!!

If you win the race.
5.) You were really good Ecco! Join us any time if you want us to race again!

[Crazy Fish Dolphin]
1.) I can catch any fish I see, but this crazy fish eludes me!

2.) I must redouble my efforts! Although I have forgotten my aim, that fish is all that matters!

After taking his crazy fish for the first time.
3.) You make a mockery of my quest! Release that crazy fish and I will teach you the fish song.
3.) Sing that to a school and you may become their leader. But watch out, if you swim too fast, they will stop following you!

After taking the crazy fish again to mock him.
4.) Stop it! You do again what I dream to do once! Release that crazy fish!

[Glyph No. 2]
1.) Catch the big fish and learn to rule a school. Most fish are just prey but some light you the way, and some repel attacks.

[Blue Common Dolphin]
1.) I can tell you all about the creatures in these waters.
1.) Turtles are friendly but shy. If you charge one, it will sink!
1.) Don't fight sharks head-on for they will bite! But if you know a shark song, you can beat them face to face.
1.) Manta rays are friendly. Stingrays hide in the sand and are dangerous to touch!
1.) The great octopus is secretive and does not like visitors.
1.) Jellyfish sting when you touch them. Some hurt only a little, but others are poisonous!
1.) Moray eels are vicious. Watch out for them in caves!

[Fish Enthusiast Common Dolphin]
1.) I can tell you everything there is to know about fish!
1.) Most fish are good to eat and some are better than others.
1.) There is one that is poison. Nothing will eat them, not even sharks. But only they can cure a poison jellyfish sting!
1.) There are some fish that glow, like torches in the dark.

[Glyph No. 3]
1.) When power is unbalanced no use to wield your force. Ploy, trap, and some cunning will conquer pure strength.
1.) Call out for attention and be quick to elude doom. From trapped jaws of power you shall snatch your reward!

[Cowardly Bottlenose Dolphin]
1.) Before the ground shook you could swim through the tunnel here, but now there is a new current and you cannot pass.

2.) If you're crazy enough to want to see the shark that nearly ate me, you'll have to find another way in.
2.) But other tunnels are as dangerous as the shark itself! I nearly drowned in one, and was nearly eaten in the other!

After taking the Power of Vigor.
3.) You took something from the mouth of that shark? You are either a hero or one crazy dolphin!

[Glyph No. 4]
1.) To leave this reef of corals, sing songs of fish and turtle, and snatch a giant's power held deep within its jaws.
