[Glyph]
1.) The path to the globe is a creation of this place. But the answer lies in following the secretive one. Revealed the prisoner will be, who holds the key to open other doors.

[Clan Soldier - Engineer]
1.) Welcome, sir! You must be new to this facility! I am the engineer in charge of the generator.

2.) I am checking to make sure all the systems are off. We must not let the Resistance use it to reach the Exalted Ones!

After talking to the Clan General and Outcast.
3.) The general wants the generator turned on? But I just finished turning it off to keep the Resistance from using it, sir!
3.) I will go to the control room and begin the startup procedure, but you need to switch on all of the main power couplings.

4.) I am going to the control room now. The main power couplings are in the intake system and the generator core.

If you haven't turn on all the power coupling switches.
5.) You must not have flipped all eight of the power coupling switches. Did you miss one?

After all the power couplings are on, but missing the security chief to authorize the usage of whales for powering Hanging Waters.
6.) All power couplings on, sir. But we need the energy of the whales. The security chief can authorize that.

[Female Clan General]
1.) Excuse me. I cannot talk now. I must conduct an inspection of the facility.

After discovering she is friends with the Outcast Elder.
2.) The security chief has an office within the generator facility. The engineer could be anywhere.

[Outcast Elder + Female Clan General]
After following the Clan General.
[Outcast Elder]
1.) Ecco, my loyal ally! I knew you would make it!
1.) Fear not this Clan General. She is a friend, and brought me here by pretending I was her prisoner!
[Female Clan General]
1.) I fought my new friend for the Outcast's sphere, but its influence caused us to stop thinking of ourselves alone.
1.) We joined forces, hoping Clan and Outcast could share the spheres. But the Exalted Ones keeps the Clan's locked away.
[Outcast Elder]
1.) Our reality was not undone when you sent the first sphere back. We are better for it! So we'll help you gain the Clan's sphere.
1.) To reach it requires the path of the Hanging Waters, created by this facility. But you need to activate them first.
[Female Clan General]
1.) The password I just taught you will get you into the generator. But it will take three of us to activate it for you!
1.) I will prepare the generator's Control Room, but you will need to send the engineer and the security chief to assist us.

[Outcast Elder]
1.) The Clan's leaders are the strongest of their kind. Like you, they have special abilities, but theirs are always used for aggression!

2.) Much has changed in the time since you touched our sphere. My people are working together as never before!
2.) The Clan too is affected. Many of their members seem to be questioning their belief in their own superiority!

[Frustrated Clan Soldier]
1.) They tell us to turn it off. They tell us to turn it on. THEY SHOULD MAKE UP THEIR MINDS!

2.) If you want the generator activated, you have to talk to the engineer.

3.) Turn it on? But all the power couplings have just been switched off!

[Clan Soldier Loyalist - Security Chief]
1.) You know the password, but it will not help you. You are a spy of the Resistance!

[Enslaved Humpback Whale No. 1]
1.) Dolphins have abused us for so long I thought I would never trust one. Yet I feel you are a friend to us.
1.) We will gladly help you on your quest, for we can tell you are one who means us no harm.

2.) Be on your way, new friend! Our hopes go with you!

[Enslaved Humpback Whale No. 2]
1.) Your markings are Clan, but I can tell you are neither Clan nor Outcast or any other dolphin I have seen before.
1.) The dolphins here are cruel. Both the Outcast and the Clan treat us as animals, inferiors to be exploited.
1.) The Clan makes us power their generator for Hanging Waters. Each time we do it our lives grow shorter. But we will gladly do it once more to help you.

2.) Return to the generator. We will provide the energy needed to take you to your goal.
