[Pilot]
1.) I wish there was more light.

When you leave the dark tunnel and approach the main station.
2.) My mother told me stories of this place. She calls it the rock eating place.

When you enter more tunnels.
3.) I don't think this goes anywhere.

After talking to the chatty Circle and turning back the power to the Crystal Processing Plant.
4.) You found another Mover! My mom will be glad to know there are more of us!
4.) The rock box in the tunnel sounds like it is stuck. Maybe the three of us can make it move!

Upon reaching the box cart.
5.) It sounds like the rock box in the tunnel is stuck. Maybe we can push it!

While pushing the box cart.
6.) Look at it go! We Movers can move anything! That is why we were man's favourites!

Finished moving the box cart.
No way will I get near that tunnel! It has teeth!

[Glyph No. 1]
1.) Sing to the helper outside of the glass. When power comes back a cart may be moved with the help of two. Switches and stones are keys to passing the teeth.

[Solitary Mover]
1.) Other Movers may have helped, but I will not. I came here to be alone, and will remain here so long as these machines remain silent.

2.) Go away. If you want talk, sing to that chattering member of the Circle who swims around outside the glass tunnel!

After talking to the chatty Circle and turning back the power to the Crystal Processing Plant.
3.) Once did rocks move through the teeth, but now it seems all is frozen. Perhaps something is stuck?

Upon reaching the box cart.
4.) The mystical energy of man's creations is absent here. We must all push to make it go!

While pushing the box cart.
5.) Behold the works of man! How I wish I had lived in a time when I could serve him!

Finished moving the box cart.
The only path forward is through the tunnel of teeth. Beyond that is forgotten. None of us has been there since man left us behind.

[Chatty Circle]
1.) The harness is one of the signs of prophecy! It is sung that man's works will be done when the harness returns!
1.) We of the Circle know our part! The Circle operates! I will show you!

[Glyph No. 2]
1.) With the use of the sonar the harness will grasp and crystals obey. Move crystals to crusher and a path shall appear.
